so the first step is cutting the
potatoes the most important thing here
is to make sure you get enough edges
these are the bits that are going to
become really crispy
so once the potatoes been cut need to
wash the starch off leave them under
running water for a couple of minutes
now over here I've got some potatoes
that have been simmering about 20
minutes I've infused the water with the
skins from the potatoes something
normally that you throw away when you're
making roast potatoes but the skins have
so much flavor
I want that flavor to go back into the
potatoes now what we're looking for here
is the edges of the potatoes has started
to break up just like this and don't
worry all of this broken surface is
going to absorb the oil while the
potatoes are roasting and that's going
to make the crust really juicy so this
point we need to drain the potatoes it's
very important to take them as far as
possible the problem with that if you
take them literally seconds too far
you're going to end up with potato soup
and any small bits of potato that have
broken off stick them in we want those
in the oven as well because they're
going to give us beautiful nuggets of
really crisp roast potato now if you
think you could rough up the edges a
little bit more a little bit brave just
take the colander give it a light shake
no more than that so once you've done
that just leave them in the colander for
about 10 minutes we need to leave them
to cool down a little as they cool down
the steam is going to be evaporating the
potato is going to be drying out for the
next step I'm adding these potatoes that
tray is heated olive oil it's really
important to make sure that all of the
Taito's are totally covered in the hot
oil that way we're going to ensure a
really good crust now they need to go
into the oven this chickens been in for
about four and a half hours so it should
be ready now what we need to do is crank
the oven because the potatoes are going
to need 190 degrees centigrade they're
gonna take about an hour I've got some
rosemary and garlic to add to them but I
don't want to stick it in until about 10
minutes before the end otherwise I'm
gonna destroy all the fresh rosemary
flavor roasting at lower temperatures
doesn't give a brown-skinned but I'll
show you how to deal with that later
however this
bird is cooked to show you and to probe
it use a probe and going about three or
four times probe into the breast and
probe into the leg for safety the whole
bird must reach sixty degrees for 15
minutes